Hard to Recycle Items 

1. Baby Food Pouches 
• Cap = recyclable
• There is no recyclable pouch film in existence now – it’s a food safety thing. 
• How to Recycle    
    • Recycling with Preserve Gimme 5
        • Caps - recyclable but many facilities can’t process pouch caps because they’re too small


2. Juice boxes and other coated cardboard drink containers: Some manufacturers have begun producing recyclable containers. These will be specially marked. The rest are not suitable for reprocessing including many disposable coffee cups from your local coffee shop.

3. Snack Bags
https://greenblue.org/top-18-things-you-should-not-recycle-curbside/
Shiny food wrappers
Potato chip bags, protein and candy bar wrappers. (landfill) most packaging that’s flexible — meaning, you can ball it up — is not recyclable. There ARE some wraps and bags that you can recycle via Store Drop Off. But, the vast majority of pouches, crinkly bags, and other flexible packaging like candy or granola bar wrappers, or baby food pouches, should go into the trash because they are made of many layers of different materials. Look for our Not Yet Recycled label to tell you when you should place these items in the trash instead of trying to recycle them. If you put them in your curbside bin, they will be landfilled.

4. Yogurt Lids? Did you know?
Plastic lids from yogurt cups may contain mixed material lids, so those aren’t always recyclable. Check your favorite brand — if the lid is plastic, it can be recycled too!

5.  Toothpaste tubes

Toothpaste tubes, cream, ointment (empty)(landfill)


6. Disposable razors? 
(landfill)

7. Diapers (https://greenblue.org/top-18-things-you-should-not-recycle-curbside/)
More people put their dirty baby diapers in the recycling than you’d believe. This is a terrible, terrible idea and wreaks havoc at recycling facilities. If you worked at a recycling facility, would you want those coming into your building, smooshing up against your precious cardboard boxes? Put those diapers in the trash! Clean baby diapers are not recyclable either — they’re made of multiple woven materials.

8. CERAMICS
Any pottery, dishes or other household items made of ceramics aren’t recyclable. Either donate usable items to a place like Goodwill, or otherwise put them in the trash.

9. WOOD
Sometimes you will encounter wood in things like ice pop sticks, or much bigger pieces for protective packaging for furniture or appliances. Wood is not recyclable. However, you could check to see if you have a composting program in your community. If you do, they may or may not accept wood items, depending on size and type of wood.

Educating community on standardized recycling labels
• https://www.how2recycle.info/ 

WINDOW PANES & DRINKING GLASSES
Not all types of glass are recyclable. The glass that windows are made of is actually a different type of glass than the kind used in making packaging — it’s meant to be a lot more durable. Similarly, the types of glass that made our glassware to drink out of at home (or things like vases) are different than glass packaging (but mason jars are OK to recycle). The reason is they need to withstand different temperatures, and thus have a different melting point than glass packaging. There is not a system set up at glass recyclers to handle these, so put these in the trash.

#5 Plastics 

